Evan has made major contributions to the Higgs physics program at CMS.  His
contributions have directly improved the sensitivity of searches for the Higgs
using taus at CMS.  Tau physics is particularly difficult at hadron colliders
due to the large jet fake background and the neutrinos produced in tau decays.
Evan has developed innovative new experimental techniques which directly address
these two challenges.  

Evan developed the novel tau identification algorithm TaNC.  The method uses an
ensemble of neural networks and reconstructs the individual decay modes of the
tau.  It reduced the background mis-identification rate of the previous
algorithm used in the CMS PTDR by a factor of five while maintaining the same
signal efficiency. The performance of the algorithm was shown to be a factor of
3 to 4 times better than equivalent ATLAS algorithm at the Tau 2010 conference.
The application of this algorithm to the Higgs search reduced the previously
dominant QCD fake background below the level of the irreducible Ztautau
background.  This resulted in better exclusion limits in the high mass region
(lower QCD tail) and near the Z peak (measured with greater precision).  Evan
played a leading role in the commissioning of the tau identification, and serves
as the software librarian and Reconstruction group contact for the Tau POG.

Tau decays always include neutrinos so the mass of the tau pair is not directly
reconstructed.  In the past, searches for the Higgs in the tau channels
generally looked for the Higgs in the visible decay product mass spectrum.  Evan
developed a new algorithm which reconstructs the full mass of the tau pair, the
SV fit.  The SV fit reconstructs the neutrinos associated to the taus by
maximizing a novel likelihood function.  The SV fit has better relative
resolution than the visible mass, allowing better discrimination between a Higgs
bump and the Z background.  

Evan applied these new methods in complete, independent analyses to measure the
Ztautau cross section and search for the MSSM Higgs, and was the first to show
that CMS could set new exclusion limits on the MSSM Higgs with the 2010 dataset.
He measured the fake backgrounds in the analyses using two complementary
background estimation methods; the Template Fit and the Fake Rate Method.  He
has made extensive contributions to the TauAnalysis package, the analysis
software framework of the EWK Tau PAG.  Additionally, he has served as the
software coordinator for the Tau Physics Object group for the past three years.

These efforts have culminated in the recent CMS result on the search for MSSM
Higgs bosons decaying to tau leptons.  The result sets the worlds best limit on
the MSSM Higgs decaying to taus and has been recently accepted for
publication in Phys. Rev. Lett. B.  The use of the SV fit shape (instead of the
visible mass) improves the exclusion limits set by CMS on the MSSM by
20%, for all Higgs masses greater than 90 GeV/c^2.  This improvement has pushed
the 2010 CMS result past the RunII limits set by the Tevatron. 

Evan has a number of proposals (Dynamical likelihood method, tracking detector
information, tau polarization) to improve the performance of the SV fit
algorithm.  Any improvement in the SV fit performance would translate directly
to improved search significance of the MSSM Higgs search using the current and
future data sets.  Additionally, he has proposed applying the SV fit methods
to Standard Model Higgs searches and searches with different
tau topologies, such as the singly and doubly charged Higgs.

Four lines: 

During my graduate career, I have made major contributions to the
pixel detector and CMS tau physics programs.  I assisted in the commissioning of
the forward pixel detector, and developed a large fraction of the offline pixel
calibration software.  In the last two years my focus has been on tau physics,
including software maintenance, algorithm development (TaNC and SVfit), and
commissioning.  My analysis efforts have focused on the MSSM Higgs
search and Ztautau cross section measurement.

