Please describe your motivation, academic preparation and aptitude for graduate
study at UC Davis. You should describe your academic plans and research
interests, your specialization within your academic field, your research
experiences and your career goals.

[Outline]

[Intro]
        Why exciting?  Needs more my motivation

[Academic Prep]
        ??? classes?

[Research Interests]

[Specialization]
        Tau physics


I was originally attracted to particle physics for two reasons: the beauty of
truly fundamental physics, and the truly gigantic machines.  The biggest tool in
particle physicists toolbox is the particle collider - giant machines that
accelerate beams of particles and then smash them together in a fiery, energetic
explosion. The newest and biggest machine, the Large Hadron Collider (LHC),
started operating near Geneva, Switzerland this past November after many years
of preparation. The energy of these collisions allows us to probe unknown areas
of physics - with higher energies we can discover unstable high mass particles
that haven't been plentiful since the universe cooled down after the big bang.
These particles provide important clues about our theories of our universe.   I
have been a member in an experiment on the LHC called the Compact Muon Solenoid
(CMS) for the past four years. CMS is a effectively a very large (six stories
tall, 12.5 kilotons, the word 'compact' is relative), very expensive camera that
sits around the point where the beams are collided and takes a three dimensional
picture of all of particles that fly out from the collision.  

One of the CMS experiment's prime objectives, and the subject of my thesis, is
the search for the Higgs boson, hypothesized to exist in 1964 as an explanation
for the existence of mass.  During my graduate career, all of my very diverse
efforts have had common theme - maximizing the discovery potential of the Higgs
boson.  My research focuses on the particular channel for observing the Higgs
where it immediately decays to two tau leptons, subatomic particles that are
like a heavy electron.

One of the first research activities I participated in was the commissioning of
the CMS pixel detector - a device that measures the trajectory of charged
particles with high precision.  The pixel detector is crucial to my thesis as
identifying tau leptons requires very precise charged particle tracking.  I
assisted in constructing, testing, and installing the pixels in CMS.
Furthermore, I designed and wrote the software that calibrates each of the 66
million pixels individually.

My thesis advisor John Conway and I have been actively improving the field of
tau identification with a series of innovation in the past four years.  The task
of a tau identification algorithm is analogous to finding a needle in a
haystack.  The algorithm must efficiently identify true tau leptons, but must
not give false positives for 'jets', which are sprays of particles that look
very similar to tau leptons, and are produced at a rate millions of times higher
than taus.  We developed a novel new algorithm that reduced the number of false
positives by a factor of ten.  This algorithm is now used as a standard
algorithm in the collaboration, and will directly improve the significance of
the Higgs search.  I also serve a leadership role within the tau-ID group; I
manage the software and coordinate the efforts of other developers.

I am now moving into the analysis stage and working with the group on preparing
the analysis to the measure the Z boson decaying to tau leptons.  This is the
first step in discovering the Higgs, as evidence of the Higgs will appear as a
bump in the Z mass spectrum.

In the future, I look forward to the upcoming deluge of new data from CMS, and
taking a crack at discovering the Higgs.  After I complete my degree, I plan to
obtain a post-doctoral appointment continuing to study LHC physics with the
eventual goal of becoming a professor at an American university.  
